Git/README-template.md, before:

# <project_name>

<project_name> is a <utility/tool/service/application> that allows <target_audience> to do <action/task>.

<Additional line of information text about what the project does, should be around 2 or 3 sentences.>

_Table of Contents_
<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
<!-- Generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc) -->

- [Tech stack](#tech-stack)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Setup](#installation)
- [Running](#running)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Deploying](#deploying)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Tech stack

<List all the frameworks, libraries and tools used by this project>

## Prerequisites

<List all the software tools and their versions required to set up and run this project>

## Setup

<Explain how to set up this project locally for the first time>

## Running

<Explain how to run this project locally each time>

## Testing

<Explain how the tests are structured, which ones should be run locally and how>

## Deploying

<Explain how to deploy to staging and to production>

## Troubleshooting

<List here all the problems found by any developer while working on this project and their solutions, each one in a different subsection>

Commit message:

Add contributing and monitoring sections to README template

Git/README-template.md, after:

# `<project_name>`

<project_name> is a <utility/tool/service/application> that allows <target_audience> to do <action/task>.

_Additional line of information text about what the project does, should be up to 3 sentences._

_Table of Contents_
<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
<!-- Generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc) -->

- [Tech stack](#tech-stack)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Running](#running)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Deploying](#deploying)
- [Monitoring](#monitoring)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Tech stack

_List all the frameworks, libraries and tools used by this project_

## Prerequisites

_List all the software tools and their versions required to set up and run this project_

## Setup

_Explain how to set up this project locally for the first time_

## Running

_Explain how to run this project locally each time_

## Testing

_Explain how the tests are structured, which ones should be run locally and how_

## Contributing

_Explain how to contribute to this repository, conventions, guidelines and code review process_

## Deploying

_Explain how to deploy to staging and to production_

## Monitoring

_List the possible ways to monitor the health status of this project_

## Troubleshooting

_List here all the problems found by any developer while working on this project and their solutions, each one in a different subsection_
