Linux/README.md, before:

# Linux

_Table of Contents_

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
<!-- generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc) -->

- [Get your operating system information](#get-your-operating-system-information)
- [Get your hardware information](#get-your-hardware-information)
- [Remove the green background color from the directory listing](#remove-the-green-background-color-from-the-directory-listing)
- [Display line numbers in your cat output](#display-line-numbers-in-your-cat-output)
- [Print a file from line to line](#print-a-file-from-line-to-line)
- [Copy files from Linux to Windows](#copy-files-from-linux-to-windows)
- [Find files by name and show all their properties](#find-files-by-name-and-show-all-their-properties)
- [Find all files containing a string](#find-all-files-containing-a-string)
- [List running processes](#list-running-processes)
- [Set an empty password for a user](#set-an-empty-password-for-a-user)
- [Services commands](#services-commands)
- [CLI Tools](#cli-tools)
- [Shell scripts](#shell-scripts)
  - [Validation](#validation)
  - [Debugging](#debugging)
- [Presentations from command line](#presentations-from-command-line)
- [Set your terminal default editor](#set-your-terminal-default-editor)
- [Neovim](#neovim)
  - [Install the latest version on Ubuntu](#install-the-latest-version-on-ubuntu)
  - [Setup](#setup)
    - [Using NvChad](#using-nvchad)
      - [NvChad useful commands](#nvchad-useful-commands)
    - [Using kickstart](#using-kickstart)
  - [Vim usesul commands](#vim-usesul-commands)
  - [Learning resources](#learning-resources)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [Must have plugins](#must-have-plugins)
- [Arch Linux](#arch-linux)
  - [Update the system](#update-the-system)
  - [Search for a package](#search-for-a-package)
  - [Install AUR (Arch User Repository) packages](#install-aur-arch-user-repository-packages)
  - [Install Java through SDKMAN](#install-java-through-sdkman)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Get your operating system information

```sh
cat /etc/os-release
# or
lsb_release -a
```

## Get your hardware information

```sh
lshw -short
```

## Remove the green background color from the directory listing

```sh
dircolors -p > ~/.dircolors
vim ~/.dircolors
# Remove ;41 ;42 ;43 ;44 from the lines beginning with
# SETUID, SETGID, CAPABILITY, STICKY_OTHER_WRITABLE, OTHER_WRITABLE and STICKY
vim ~/.bashrc
# Append the following line
eval 'dircolors ~/.dircolors' > /dev/null
```

- [Source](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/94498/what-causes-this-green-background-in-ls-output)

## Display line numbers in your cat output

```sh
cat -n <file-path>
```

## Print a file from line to line

```sh
sed -n 10,20p <file-path>
```

## Copy files from Linux to Windows

- Install `openssh-server` and `net-tools` on Linux

- Intall `Putty` on Windows (with [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/putty))

```sh
# Assuming 192.168.10.12 is your Linux IP address,
# write the following command in a shell on Windows:
pscp user@192.168.10.12:/source/path/on/linux/* c:\Destination\Path\On\Windows
```

## Find files by name and show all their properties

```sh
find . -name <file_name_or_pattern> | xargs ls -lhpa --color --group-directories-first
```

## Find all files containing a string

```sh
grep -Rin "string" .
```

`R` = recursive

`i` = ignore case

`n` = show the line number and content

`.` = starting from the current directory

Use `l` instead of `n` to show the file name only.

## List running processes

```sh
ps aux | grep procName
pgrep -f procName
top
htop
```

## Set an empty password for a user

```sh
sudo passwd -d username
```

## Services commands

```sh
# List running services
ls /etc/init.d

# Start/stop a service
sudo -u root bash
/etc/init.d/<my-service> start/stop
# if you don't find there, check
/var/spool/cron/*
# if not there, check:
/etc/monit.d/*

# List services listening to ports
sudo netstat -tulpn | grep LISTEN
```

## CLI Tools

- [Witowski Favorite CLI Tools](https://switowski.com/blog/favorite-cli-tools)

## Shell scripts

### Validation

- [ShellCheck](https://www.shellcheck.net/)

### Debugging

Prepend the following to your script:

```sh
# Exit immediately if a command exits with a non-zero status
set -e

# Print the last failed command, line number and exit code
trap 'prev_cmd=$curr_cmd; prev_ln=$curr_ln; curr_cmd=$BASH_COMMAND; curr_ln=${LINENO}' DEBUG
trap 'echo -e $"\n   ERROR in ${BASH_SOURCE}:$prev_ln >>> $prev_cmd <<< FAILED with EXIT CODE $?\n"' EXIT
```

## Presentations from command line

- [mdp](https://github.com/visit1985/mdp)
- [tpp](https://synflood.at/tpp.html)
- [sent](https://tools.suckless.org/sent/)

## Set your terminal default editor

```sh
sudo update-alternatives --config editor
```

## Neovim

Neovim is a cross-platform fork of Vim with code highlighting, syntax checking, code completion, inlay hints, type hints, a built-in debugger, a terminal emulator, a file manager, a markdown previewer, a git client and much more. It has better defaults than Vim, for example `autoindent` and `hlsearch` (highlight all matches). It has been the most loved editor in the Stack Overflow Developer Survey for the last 2 years ([source](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2022#integrated-development-environment)).

### Install the latest version on Ubuntu

Use [bob](https://github.com/MordechaiHadad/bob/releases). Example:

```sh
wget https://github.com/MordechaiHadad/bob/releases/download/v2.7.0/bob-linux-x86_64.zip
unzip bob-linux-x86_64.zip
cd bob-linux-x86_64/
chmod +x bob
echo "export PATH=\"/home/<username>/.local/share/bob/nvim-bin:\$PATH\"" >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
./bob install stable
./bob use stable
```

### Setup

#### Using NvChad

Set one of the [Nerd Fonts](https://www.nerdfonts.com/font-downloads) as your terminal font, then run:

```sh
rm -rf ~/.local/share/nvim/
rm -rf ~/.config/nvim
git clone https://github.com/NvChad/NvChad ~/.config/nvim --depth 1 && nvim
```

##### NvChad useful commands

- Change theme with `space t h`
- Install a syntax highlighter with `:TSInstall <language>`
- Display the file tree with `Ctrl`+`n`
- Mark a file with `m`
- Create, rename, copy and paste a file with `a`, `r`, `c` and `p`
- Open the find file meny with `space f f`
- Search in the opened files names with `space f b`
- Search in the current file with `spaf s`
- Toggle the line numbers with `space n`
- Toggle the relative line numbers with `space r n`
- Cycle through the tabs (aka buffers) with `tab` and `shift tab`
- Close the current tab with `space x`

#### Using kickstart

```sh
sudo apt install gcc
mkdir -p ~/.config/nvim
git clone https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim.git ~/.config/nvim
echo "vim.wo.relativenumber = true" >> ~/.config/nvim/init.lua  
nvim
```

### Vim usesul commands

- Jump back to previous location `Ctrl`+`o`
- Jump forward to next location `Ctrl`+`i`
- Undo/Redo `u`/`Ctrl`+`r`
- Copy current line `yy`
- Paste line from clipboard `p`
- Delete current line `dd`
- Jump the next/previous word `w`/`b`
- Select text (Visual) `v`
- Format current selected text `gq` (comes from plugin?)
- Change current word `cw`
- Copy the entire file to the clipboard `ggyG`

### Learning resources

- Type `vimtutor` in your terminal and follow the instructions.
- [Vim Adventures](https://vim-adventures.com/)
- [Vim Cheat Sheet](https://devhints.io/vim)
- [The Primeagen: Vim As Your Editor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X6AR2RMB5tE&list=PLm323Lc7iSW_wuxqmKx_xxNtJC_hJbQ7R&pp=iAQB)
- [The Primeagen: Vim Life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6VJBeZEDZU&list=PLm323Lc7iSW9CtibHhhQErDh167XfL4EU&pp=iAQB)

### Troubleshooting

When running `:checkhealth` I get a lot of errors like:
```
invalid node type at position 242 for language arduino
```
See [this gist](https://gist.github.com/lackovic/1916b5cc0ca22496ea3061f4ae3b5aff).

If you run `:echo nvim_get_runtime_file('parser', v:true)` and you get two parsers then you need to remove one of the two

### Must have plugins

- [tpope/vim-surround](https://github.com/tpope/vim-surround)
- [phaazon/hop.nvim](https://github.com/phaazon/hop.nvim)

## Arch Linux

### Update the system

```sh
sudo pacman -Syu
```

- `S` = Synchronize packages. Packages are installed directly from the remote repositories, including all dependencies required to run the packages
- `y` = Download a fresh copy of the master package database from the server(s) defined in pacman.conf
- `u` = Upgrades all packages that are out-of-date

### Search for a package

To search for example for _OpenJDK_, run:

```sh
sudo pacman -Ss OpenJDK
```

- `S` = Synchronize packages. Packages are installed directly from the remote repositories, including all dependencies required to run the packages
- `s` = Search each package in the sync databases for names or descriptions that match regexp

### Install AUR (Arch User Repository) packages

For WSL2 see [this issue](https://github.com/yuk7/ArchWSL/issues/142).

1. Install the prerequisites:

   ```sh
   pacman -S --needed base-devel
   ```

1. Install Yay as AUR helper:

   ```sh
   git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/yay.git
   cd yay/
   makepkg -si
   ```

1. Install the package of your choice with:

   ```sh
   yay -S <package-name>
   ```

Resources:

- [AUR packages search](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/)

- [AUR wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository)

- [AUR helpers](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/AUR_helpers)

### Install Java through SDKMAN

1. Install the prerequisites:

   ```sh
   sudo pacman -Sy which unzip zip
   ```

1. Follow the [installation instructions](https://sdkman.io/install).

1. To see the list of available Java versions: it

   ```sh
   sdk list java
   ```

1. To install a particular version of Java run:

   ```sh
   sdk install java <identifier>
   ```

Commit message:

Add how to cd into previous directory in Linux

Linux/README.md, after:

# Linux

_Table of Contents_

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
<!-- generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc) -->

- [Get your operating system information](#get-your-operating-system-information)
- [Get your hardware information](#get-your-hardware-information)
- [Remove the green background color from the directory listing](#remove-the-green-background-color-from-the-directory-listing)
- [Display line numbers in your cat output](#display-line-numbers-in-your-cat-output)
- [Print a file from line to line](#print-a-file-from-line-to-line)
- [Copy files from Linux to Windows](#copy-files-from-linux-to-windows)
- [Find files by name and show all their properties](#find-files-by-name-and-show-all-their-properties)
- [Find all files containing a string](#find-all-files-containing-a-string)
- [List running processes](#list-running-processes)
- [Set an empty password for a user](#set-an-empty-password-for-a-user)
- [Services commands](#services-commands)
- [CLI Tools](#cli-tools)
- [Shell scripts](#shell-scripts)
  - [Validation](#validation)
  - [Debugging](#debugging)
- [Presentations from command line](#presentations-from-command-line)
- [Set your terminal default editor](#set-your-terminal-default-editor)
- [cd to the previous directory](#cd-to-the-previous-directory)
- [Neovim](#neovim)
  - [Install the latest version on Ubuntu](#install-the-latest-version-on-ubuntu)
  - [Setup](#setup)
    - [Using NvChad](#using-nvchad)
      - [NvChad useful commands](#nvchad-useful-commands)
    - [Using kickstart](#using-kickstart)
  - [Vim usesul commands](#vim-usesul-commands)
  - [Learning resources](#learning-resources)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [Must have plugins](#must-have-plugins)
- [Arch Linux](#arch-linux)
  - [Update the system](#update-the-system)
  - [Search for a package](#search-for-a-package)
  - [Install AUR (Arch User Repository) packages](#install-aur-arch-user-repository-packages)
  - [Install Java through SDKMAN](#install-java-through-sdkman)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Get your operating system information

```sh
cat /etc/os-release
# or
lsb_release -a
```

## Get your hardware information

```sh
lshw -short
```

## Remove the green background color from the directory listing

```sh
dircolors -p > ~/.dircolors
vim ~/.dircolors
# Remove ;41 ;42 ;43 ;44 from the lines beginning with
# SETUID, SETGID, CAPABILITY, STICKY_OTHER_WRITABLE, OTHER_WRITABLE and STICKY
vim ~/.bashrc
# Append the following line
eval 'dircolors ~/.dircolors' > /dev/null
```

- [Source](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/94498/what-causes-this-green-background-in-ls-output)

## Display line numbers in your cat output

```sh
cat -n <file-path>
```

## Print a file from line to line

```sh
sed -n 10,20p <file-path>
```

## Copy files from Linux to Windows

- Install `openssh-server` and `net-tools` on Linux

- Intall `Putty` on Windows (with [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/putty))

```sh
# Assuming 192.168.10.12 is your Linux IP address,
# write the following command in a shell on Windows:
pscp user@192.168.10.12:/source/path/on/linux/* c:\Destination\Path\On\Windows
```

## Find files by name and show all their properties

```sh
find . -name <file_name_or_pattern> | xargs ls -lhpa --color --group-directories-first
```

## Find all files containing a string

```sh
grep -Rin "string" .
```

`R` = recursive

`i` = ignore case

`n` = show the line number and content

`.` = starting from the current directory

Use `l` instead of `n` to show the file name only.

## List running processes

```sh
ps aux | grep procName
pgrep -f procName
top
htop
```

## Set an empty password for a user

```sh
sudo passwd -d username
```

## Services commands

```sh
# List running services
ls /etc/init.d

# Start/stop a service
sudo -u root bash
/etc/init.d/<my-service> start/stop
# if you don't find there, check
/var/spool/cron/*
# if not there, check:
/etc/monit.d/*

# List services listening to ports
sudo netstat -tulpn | grep LISTEN
```

## CLI Tools

- [Witowski Favorite CLI Tools](https://switowski.com/blog/favorite-cli-tools)

## Shell scripts

### Validation

- [ShellCheck](https://www.shellcheck.net/)

### Debugging

Prepend the following to your script:

```sh
# Exit immediately if a command exits with a non-zero status
set -e

# Print the last failed command, line number and exit code
trap 'prev_cmd=$curr_cmd; prev_ln=$curr_ln; curr_cmd=$BASH_COMMAND; curr_ln=${LINENO}' DEBUG
trap 'echo -e $"\n   ERROR in ${BASH_SOURCE}:$prev_ln >>> $prev_cmd <<< FAILED with EXIT CODE $?\n"' EXIT
```

## Presentations from command line

- [mdp](https://github.com/visit1985/mdp)
- [tpp](https://synflood.at/tpp.html)
- [sent](https://tools.suckless.org/sent/)

## Set your terminal default editor

```sh
sudo update-alternatives --config editor
```

## cd to the previous directory

```sh
cd -
```

## Neovim

Neovim is a cross-platform fork of Vim with code highlighting, syntax checking, code completion, inlay hints, type hints, a built-in debugger, a terminal emulator, a file manager, a markdown previewer, a git client and much more. It has better defaults than Vim, for example `autoindent` and `hlsearch` (highlight all matches). It has been the most loved editor in the Stack Overflow Developer Survey for the last 2 years ([source](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2022#integrated-development-environment)).

### Install the latest version on Ubuntu

Use [bob](https://github.com/MordechaiHadad/bob/releases). Example:

```sh
wget https://github.com/MordechaiHadad/bob/releases/download/v2.7.0/bob-linux-x86_64.zip
unzip bob-linux-x86_64.zip
cd bob-linux-x86_64/
chmod +x bob
echo "export PATH=\"/home/<username>/.local/share/bob/nvim-bin:\$PATH\"" >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
./bob install stable
./bob use stable
```

### Setup

#### Using NvChad

Set one of the [Nerd Fonts](https://www.nerdfonts.com/font-downloads) as your terminal font, then run:

```sh
rm -rf ~/.local/share/nvim/
rm -rf ~/.config/nvim
git clone https://github.com/NvChad/NvChad ~/.config/nvim --depth 1 && nvim
```

##### NvChad useful commands

- Change theme with `space t h`
- Install a syntax highlighter with `:TSInstall <language>`
- Display the file tree with `Ctrl`+`n`
- Mark a file with `m`
- Create, rename, copy and paste a file with `a`, `r`, `c` and `p` (creating a folder is done by following the name with the slash `/`)
- Open the find file meny with `space f f`
- Search in the opened files names with `space f b`
- Search in the current file with `spaf s`
- Toggle the line numbers with `space n`
- Toggle the relative line numbers with `space r n`
- Cycle through the tabs (aka buffers) with `tab` and `shift tab`
- Close the current tab with `space x`

#### Using kickstart

```sh
sudo apt install gcc
mkdir -p ~/.config/nvim
git clone https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim.git ~/.config/nvim
echo "vim.wo.relativenumber = true" >> ~/.config/nvim/init.lua  
nvim
```

### Vim usesul commands

- Jump back to previous location `Ctrl`+`o`
- Jump forward to next location `Ctrl`+`i`
- Undo/Redo `u`/`Ctrl`+`r`
- Copy current line `yy`
- Paste line from clipboard `p`
- Delete current line `dd`
- Jump the next/previous word `w`/`b`
- Select text (Visual) `v`
- Format current selected text `gq` (comes from plugin?)
- Change current word `cw`
- Copy the entire file to the clipboard `ggyG`

### Learning resources

- Type `vimtutor` in your terminal and follow the instructions.
- [Vim Adventures](https://vim-adventures.com/)
- [Vim Cheat Sheet](https://devhints.io/vim)
- [The Primeagen: Vim As Your Editor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X6AR2RMB5tE&list=PLm323Lc7iSW_wuxqmKx_xxNtJC_hJbQ7R&pp=iAQB)
- [The Primeagen: Vim Life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6VJBeZEDZU&list=PLm323Lc7iSW9CtibHhhQErDh167XfL4EU&pp=iAQB)

### Troubleshooting

When running `:checkhealth` I get a lot of errors like:
```
invalid node type at position 242 for language arduino
```
See [this gist](https://gist.github.com/lackovic/1916b5cc0ca22496ea3061f4ae3b5aff).

If you run `:echo nvim_get_runtime_file('parser', v:true)` and you get two parsers then you need to remove one of the two

### Must have plugins

- [tpope/vim-surround](https://github.com/tpope/vim-surround)
- [phaazon/hop.nvim](https://github.com/phaazon/hop.nvim)

## Arch Linux

### Update the system

```sh
sudo pacman -Syu
```

- `S` = Synchronize packages. Packages are installed directly from the remote repositories, including all dependencies required to run the packages
- `y` = Download a fresh copy of the master package database from the server(s) defined in pacman.conf
- `u` = Upgrades all packages that are out-of-date

### Search for a package

To search for example for _OpenJDK_, run:

```sh
sudo pacman -Ss OpenJDK
```

- `S` = Synchronize packages. Packages are installed directly from the remote repositories, including all dependencies required to run the packages
- `s` = Search each package in the sync databases for names or descriptions that match regexp

### Install AUR (Arch User Repository) packages

For WSL2 see [this issue](https://github.com/yuk7/ArchWSL/issues/142).

1. Install the prerequisites:

   ```sh
   pacman -S --needed base-devel
   ```

1. Install Yay as AUR helper:

   ```sh
   git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/yay.git
   cd yay/
   makepkg -si
   ```

1. Install the package of your choice with:

   ```sh
   yay -S <package-name>
   ```

Resources:

- [AUR packages search](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/)

- [AUR wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository)

- [AUR helpers](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/AUR_helpers)

### Install Java through SDKMAN

1. Install the prerequisites:

   ```sh
   sudo pacman -Sy which unzip zip
   ```

1. Follow the [installation instructions](https://sdkman.io/install).

1. To see the list of available Java versions: it

   ```sh
   sdk list java
   ```

1. To install a particular version of Java run:

   ```sh
   sdk install java <identifier>
   ```
